Throughout this course there will be one
key acronym to keep in mind, the CIA. No I'm not talking about the US Central
Intelligence agency although they do have a lot to do with national security. When I say CIA, I'm talking about
confidentiality, integrity and availability. These three key principles
are the foundation for what's widely referred
to as the CIA triad. A guiding model for
designing information security policies. These three principles will
help you develop security policies in the workplace and for
your own personal environments. Let's start with confidentiality, confidentiality means
keeping things hidden, in IT it means keeping the data that you
have hidden safely from unwanted eyes. One particular method of confidentiality
that you probably use every day it's password protection, only you maybe your
partner should know the password to gain access to your bank account online. For confidentiality to work you need to
limit access to your data only those who absolutely need to know
how to gain access should. The I in CIA stands for
integrity integrity means keeping our data accurate and
untampered with the data that we send or receive should remain the same
throughout its entire journey. Imagine if you downloaded
a file off the Internet and the website you're downloading it
from says the file is three megs. Then when you download it it turns out
to be about 30 megs that's a red flag, something happened during the download
something potentially unsafe. An unwanted file may now be
living on your hard drive. Last, but not least let's look
at the A in CIA which stands for availability, availability means
that the information we have is readily accessible to those
people that should have it. This could be many things like being
prepared if your data is lost or if your system is down. Security attacks are designed to
steal all kinds of things from you. Time, material things, your dignity. Some steal the time that you'll need to
spend to get services back up and running. Some security attacks will hold
your system hostage until you pay a ransom for it. Sounds scary and it is, but that's why
you're here to learn how to stop these types of attacks from happening. Going through this course,
you'll see how every aspect of security revolves around these
three key principles, confidentiality, integrity and availability.