Before we dive into things like bringing down digital thieves, let's get some of the
terminology either way. We'll be using these terms
throughout the entire course so you should know them inside and out before
we get started. The first one is risk, the possibility of
suffering a loss and the event of an
attack on the system. Let's say that you
buy a new phone. One security measure
you can take to protect your device is
to set up a screen lock using a password or
pattern that you add to prevent others
from accessing your info. A screen lock is a security
feature that helps prevent unwanted access by creating an action you have
to do to gain entry. If you choose not to add a
screen lock to your phone, the risks that you take is
that someone could easily gain access to your phone
and steal your data. Even adding something
as simple as a passcode or a
screen lock can help you protect your
personal or company data from getting into
the wrong hands. Next up is the term
vulnerability, a flaw in the system
that could be exploited to
compromise the system. Vulnerabilities can be holes that you may or may
not be aware of. Maybe you go away for a long vacation and
lock every door and window in your house before you leave but you forget to
lock the bathroom window. That bathroom window
is now a vulnerability that burglars can use to
break into your house. Another example is when
you're writing a web app and enable a debug account for
testing during development, but forget to disable it
before launching the app. You now have a vulnerability
in your app then an attacker can
potentially discover. There's a special
type of vulnerability called a zero-day vulnerability, or zero-day for short, which is a vulnerability
that is not known to the software developer or vendor but is known
to an attacker. The name refers to the amount of time the software vendor has had to react to and to fix
the vulnerability zero days. Another key term is exploit. Software that is used
to take advantage of a security bug
or vulnerability. Attackers will write up
exploits for vulnerabilities they find in software to
cause harm to the system. Let's say an attacker discovers
a zero-day vulnerability, decides to take advantage of the previously unknown bug and writes a zero-day
exploit code. That code will specifically
target and take advantage of this unknown bug
to gain access and cause damage to
systems, not cool. The next term to know is threat. The possibility of danger that could exploit
a vulnerability. Threats are just possible attackers sort of like burglars. Not all burglars will
attempt to break into your home to steal your
most prized possessions, but they could and so
they're considered threats. Next up, hacker. A hacker in the security
world is someone who attempts to break into
or exploit a system. Most of us associate hackers
with malicious figures, but there are actually two
common types of hackers. You have black hat
hackers who tried to get into systems to
do something malicious. There are also white hat hackers who attempt to find
weaknesses in the system, but also alert the owners
of those systems so that they can fix it before someone else does something malicious. While there are other
types of hackers, these are the two main
ones and the most important for us to
understand right now. The last term to know is attack, which is an actual attempt
at causing harm to a system. It's super important to be
aware of possible threats and vulnerabilities to your system so that you can better
prepare for them. The sad reality is that there will always be a
tax on your system. But before you
start searching for an underground bunker to spend
the rest of your days in, remember that there
are ways that you can detect and mitigate attacks and we're here to help you learn
how to do just that. In this module, we'll be
talking about some of the common attacks
you'll encounter at home and in the workplace. Throughout the course,
you'll learn how to harden your systems
against these attacks. Turns out there are hundreds of ways that your system
can be attacked, but there are also hundreds of ways that you
can prevent them. We won't talk about all of them, but we will cover
the major ones. Abandon the bunker idea
and prepare to dive in because things were about
to get real, real secure.