Malware is a type of malicious software
that can be used to obtain your sensitive
information or delete or modify files. Basically, it can be used for any and all unwanted purposes. The most common types
of malware you'll see are viruses, worms, adware, spyware,
trojans, rootkits, backdoors, botnets. Oh my. I know it's a long list, but we'll go into detail
about each of these and even learn about
some real-life cases. But for now, let's talk about the most common
forms of malware. Viruses are the best
known type of malware. They work the same way that
viruses in your body work. When you get sick, a virus attaches itself to a
healthy cell in your body, then replicates
itself and spreads to other healthy cells in
your body until bam, you're sneezing and
wheezing and you're a mess. In a computer virus, the
virus attaches itself to some executable
code like a program. When the program is running, it touches many files, each of which is now susceptible to being
infected with the virus. The virus replicates
itself on these files, does the malicious work it's intended to do and repeats this over and over until it spreads as far as
it can. It's scary. Well, hold on tight. We're
just getting started. Worms are similar to viruses, except that instead of having to attach themselves onto
something to spread, worms can live on their own and spread through channels
like the network. One case of a famous
computer worm was the ILoveYou or Love Bug, which spread to millions
of Windows machines. The worm was spread via email. Someone would email
a message with the subject line
of I love you and an attachment that
was actually the worm disguised as a love
letter text file. The text file was actually an executable file
that when opened, would execute many attacks like copying itself to several
files and folders, launching other
malicious software, replacing files, and then hiding itself after it was done. The worms spread by
stealing email addresses that were in the victim's
computer and chat clients. It then proceeded
to send that email out to everyone in
the address book. The Love Bug spread
across the world and caused billions
of dollars in damage. Not so lovely. This was just one of the
many reasons why you should never open email attachments
that you do not recognize. Adware is one of the most visible forms of
malware that you'll encounter. Most of us see it every day. Adware is just software that displays advertisements
and collects data. Sometimes we legitimately
download adware. That happens when you agree to the terms of service
that allows you to use free software in exchange for showing
you advertisements. Other times, it may get
installed without your consent and may do other
malicious things than just display
advertisements. In Greek mythology, there's a famous tale of the evasion
of the City of Troy. The Greeks who had
been trying to gain access into
the walled city, finally decided to
hide themselves in a giant wooden statue of a horse under the
guise of a gift. The Trojans allowed the gift inside then in the
dead of night, the Greeks broke out of the
statue and attacked the city. In computer security, we have malware that functions
like a Trojan Horse, and it's named after
this exact thing. A Trojan is malware that
disguises itself as one thing, but does something else. Just like how the
historical Trojan Horse was accepted into the city
by the citizens of Troy, a computer Trojan has to
be accepted by the user, meaning the program has to
be executed by the user. No one would willingly install
malware on their machine. That's why Trojans are
meant to entice you to install them by disguising
themselves as other software. Spyware is a type of malware
that's meant to spy on you, which could mean monitoring your computer
screens, key presses, webcams, and then reporting or streaming all of this
information to another party. It's not good. A key logger is a common type of
spyware that's used to record every keystroke you make. It can capture all of
the messages you type, your confidential information, your passwords, and even more. Ransomware is a type of attack
that holds your data or system hostage until
you pay some ransom. Our case of ransomware was the WannaCry ransomware
attack in May, of 2017. The malware took advantage of a vulnerability in
older Windows systems, infecting hundreds of thousands of machines across the world. Most notably, the
attacks shutdown the systems for the National
Health Services in England, causing a health-related crisis. The WannaCry ransomware attack devastated systems
around the world. These types of attacks are
becoming more common and we need to be ready to fight
them. Let's soldier on.